a lot of people are unhappy with
Instagram recently people are worried
that Tick Tock might get banned so when
it comes to repurposing what's your
thoughts generally around taking
existing tick tocks and reels and just
posting them on YouTube shorts how would
you say the psychology of a YouTube
shorts Watcher might differ from someone
watching Tick Tock or Instagram reels or
does it differ is it the same it would
be irresponsible for anybody that's
serious about getting their message out
building their brand building their
business to ignore YouTube shorts
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
Sean welcome to the podcast super fired
up to be with you again Brock how's it
going good really good I'm excited to
have you here and I'm excited to Deep
dive into YouTube shorts which I think a
lot of our audience just from asking
them on my own Instagram they're very
new to it they have like a vague idea of
it's kind of like YouTube's version of
Tick Tock but they don't know much about
it I gotta tell you a story before we
get started uh my wife and I when we
were on our honeymoon we were in Fiji
and we went in toward one of their local
Villages they had just gotten power like
within the last five years uh they
hardly had internet access it was like a
very remote Village like on one of these
islands and yet we're walking around and
I saw one of the little kids had like a
little tiny smartphone and I looked at
what they were watching and they were
watching YouTube shorts so this is a
village of like 500 people barely has
internet just got power like within La
within the last decade and they were
watching YouTube shorts and so my
question is
was that an anomaly did I just like
happen to stumble upon you know the
leprechaun who happened to be watching
YouTube shorts or is it a lot more
widespread than people who are just
buried in the Instagram bubble might
think yeah I I don't think it's an
anomaly um the most recent data is that
50 billion daily shorts views are
happening at the time of recording this
podcast that was 20 billion up from the
last numbers and 1.5 billion monthly
active users using shorts YouTube's at
2.6 billion so that just means how many
YouTube users have bought into the
shorts platform so YouTube shorts
isolated cut away from YouTube is bigger
than Twitter uh bigger than LinkedIn on
par with Instagram
and come in for tick tock and those as
far as vertical video Instagram Tick
Tock and shorts it's a major player and
that's no surprise because owned by
alphabet who owns Google and YouTube
um they're they're gonna for tick tock
and reels and people are trying to take
that short form you know kind of market
share but the exciting thing for
everybody listening is that if you're
committed to get creating vertical video
in general then you could repurpose a
lot of what you have and lead into
YouTube shorts without necessarily
having to reinvent everything you're
doing or just add another thing to the
to-do list gotcha okay so I want to talk
about that a little bit then because I
know a lot of people are unhappy with
Instagram recently people are worried
that tiktok might get banned so when it
comes to repurposing what would be your
recommendation is just what's your
thoughts generally around taking
existing tick tocks and reels and just
posting them on YouTube shorts yeah so
the easiest lowest hanging fruit is to
use these websites that you recommend to
download your reels and your tick tocks
free from The Watermark and upload them
the challenge there is that the music's
embedded and you may have used some type
of an audio that will trigger a song
that's popular and so that's not a huge
deal I would prefer people take the
content they already have off of
Instagram reels or Tick Tock and upload
relevant maybe not every episode or
whatever and every every reel but the
relevant reels answering this question
on YouTube you know who is your target
audience and what problem do you solve
and chances are it's going to be the
same it's just another place of of
where people can consume and connect
with you and it's a different audience I
think that's the mindset that people
need to lean in that you can reach new
people different people and you don't
have a lot to lose when you've already
created all of that content the the
added layer of best practice would be if
you could create your vertical videos
without the music embedded if they're on
your phone
um I know that in the tick tock workflow
now they'll let you finally download
things
pre-watermark and potentially again
pre-popular music I think media our
brand I like to have vertical videos
either created in cap cut or separately
or on my phone and one and I like to
have a version without music and then I
natively upload it to YouTube shorts
select a popular song to tick tock
select a popular song two Instagrams
select a popular song and if it's if
it's teaching or talking
and there's no music embedded then that
would be best practice okay so that's
kind of an added layer of it and then
the third one which we could explore in
depth is also for a lot of my friends
and peers and our students that have
just repurposed things they've gotten
okay results but of course your best
results come when you really actually
create content native for the platform
just meaning you're really thinking
about the mindset and psychology of the
person you're trying to reach and
potentially build out a YouTube short
directly on the platform itself gotcha
how would you say the psychology of a
YouTube shorts Watcher might differ from
someone watching Tick Tock or in stream
reels or does it differ is it the same
I think that YouTube shorts
in our demographics for those that are
consuming ours we already say it goes
younger that's probably no surprise but
it definitely uh you know I'm coming up
on my 40th birthday
um I once I grew the beard people
thought maybe I look a little bit older
but a lot of times maybe people thought
I was in the early 30s so our span of
our audience is kind of like 35 to 45 is
that biggest core what's funny is just
consuming shorts which is also some
other content creators and some younger
contact creators but nevertheless it's
more like 20 to 30. it's like 18 to 30
it and we can immediately see that as we
go down and same content but it's you
know I think media our YouTube channel
but it does age down a little bit more I
think the psychology would be somewhat
similar to tick tock one of the best
things listening to this that
um listeners could do is grab their
phone make sure you have the YouTube app
update your YouTube app and then notice
that at the bottom where you have the
chance to upload or go to the home page
one of your options is shorts the shorts
feed and then start I've been through
them and you're going to start to
experience
um that YouTube shorts experience and I
would say it's more like Tick Tock than
it is like Instagram so Tick Tock again
seems to skew a little younger maybe the
humor
editing green screen or or irreverence
uh is kind of that Tick Tock mentality
reels kind of has that but real seems to
be as we probably the majority of this
audience is familiar with reels I think
reels hits all ages in a lot of ways it
hits different passions as do the other
platforms but Tick Tock in in YouTube
shorts I think again while are being
consumed by all ages Baby Boomers across
the board it's heavier there's those are
going to lean a little bit younger and
then the other psychology is
um what do people go to YouTube for
though and 65 percent of people go to
YouTube wanting to solve a problem and
people do want to learn things on
YouTube it's it still does have search
functionality that's one thing Tick Tock
is leaning more into search they
extended the description amount of text
you could do there is
gen Z is using Tick Tock for search more
than they're using Google crazy so all
that's kind of wild but what's also
fascinating about YouTube shorts is it's
not the short speed is where you're
going to go viral which is the same idea
of The Tick Tock feed or the Instagram
feed like it's being sent and you see
new people are seeing it but there's
it's surprising how much search
inquiries are being fulfilled by shorts
especially when you can share
information in less than a minute yeah
the best way to share it and so recently
a friend was building a video editing PC
or a gaming PC and every part they were
looking up they were getting shorts as
the ranked answers and
um garyvee mentioned uh talking about
wine that if you were reviewing one wine
bottle or one you know particular
vintage or something that
very specific less than 60 second Search
terms could be turned into YouTube
shorts I think that YouTube has the
furthest Head Start in regards to that
even over Tick Tock with a search
functionality of Google and whatnot so
those are some of the things that are a
little bit
um different about YouTube shorts gotcha
that makes sense are there Trends on
YouTube shorts because I think that very
commonly there are trends that kind of
blow up on Tick Tock oftentimes they
migrate to Instagram I think there are
some trends that originate on Instagram
but primarily on Tick Tock are there
trends that are originating on YouTube
shorts that creators can then kind of
piggyback off of or is it primarily that
you're seeing Trends migrating from
other platforms yeah I think that that
culture is a little bit less I want to
say the the music options are also a
little bit different like I am not
seeing
um clips of movie audios on your
Instagram you use a lot of voice and you
you lip sync you're definitely seeing
the music of course and so potentially
trending audio which may cross platform
and the auditory subconscious response
of like oh that's kind of that Moody
dramatic I've got something you know
David Goggins you know like real focused
personal development in a song in a
beach playing underneath it
um and so the there is the music for
sure
um but what's fascinating is the music
library is is definitely different and
the licensing of the the music you know
there's also
some songs over there are limited to 15
seconds
um and that was they were all limited to
15 seconds for a while which was a
obviously a huge album I can imagine if
you're just created sure it was longer
than 50 because the music would just
stop so it like would start off with
this Vibe it just cut out you're like
was that intentional and so
um you know it speaks to it evolving but
to your point it's not the same Trends
culture while I would say one of the
biggest things on YouTube is Trends
especially unless you lean more to
entertainment uh you could throw back to
the planking days or the Harlem Shake
days so maybe it's trends of of certain
things people are trying gotcha certain
things that a certain content format
that is happening
um YouTube is a major Trends place in
that regard gotcha you talked about SEO
and people using Google search and Tick
Tock to search um and I know you are an
expert when it comes to video rankings
can you talk to me more about how do we
get our shorts to show up first when
people are searching for different terms
is it the hashtags is it uh just the
straight up caption that you're adding
to your short when is that all plan yeah
the heaviest
influence for showing up in search with
a short is going to be a strong title
and titles there's some interesting
tweaks that people can make to their
titles in some cases
um a very short title and even emojis
um could be very effective in YouTube
shorts what's more important is the
content itself and in some cases
if it's being suggested in the shorts
feed
it's just showing up right the title is
less influential in that case and it's
the hook of the video maybe text in the
video itself and then what's the average
view duration is there completion to the
video and then it might go viral these
spread the search based functionality
though is less of a viral functionality
but it could be a quick way to dominate
long tail keyword phrases so be in that
case if you were titling your YouTube
shorts you may be using more characters
just simply so that you can communicate
with the algorithm and anybody who is
literally searching by text gotcha as an
answer to a specific question so if
you're like a loan officer you were in
real estate you you just make sure that
you compare two loan products like FHA
loan versus 30-year fixed versus
to one buy down or something you know
and you compare those three in 60
seconds and as people are looking for
that information
um as chalene Johnson always says be
brief be bright be fun to be done so if
you communicated all that in six seconds
you know 60 seconds or less
um then that video could be like a good
lead gen video or just a great video
that continues to be found so
um search base wouldn't even be kind of
my primary strategy but it's always like
understanding the tools in your tool
belt and thinking okay like this
particular thing could really have a
long tail value to it and you mentioned
video record Academy our program
um what is amazing about YouTube is
content you create today can continue to
be viewed for six months a year two
years I have 10 year old videos that are
not only still getting views but are
connected to passive income streams so
the amount of Leverage I don't know if I
want to say that again for the listener
I have videos that are 10 years old that
are earning me passive income when I'm
hanging out with my six month old and my
two and a half year old and my wife and
we're on vacation and these videos are
still working for me when I'm not
working zero other social media
platforms offer you that opportunity
YouTube is the only platform where your
content truly lives forever if you
optimize it properly so not every video
sometimes you jump on Trends to your
point you jump on news you jump out a
headline you jump on a fad you speak to
a current event
those are not the types of videos that
will
get views usually 10 years later which
is fine because that's that's one tool
in your tool belt but this search based
content that is potentially Evergreen
meaning I mean I grew up in Seattle you
lived in Seattle for a while evergreen
trees they were green all year long and
Seattle has a lot of rain snow Summer
Sun and so Evergreen videos on YouTube
topics that are continually relevant an
answer to a specific question of viewers
asking that's at least relevant for
multiple years you get some of those
videos ranked now your business is
growing on autopilot you're getting your
time back your sanity back piece back
and able to either take time off or work
on something else you've wanted to work
on and you've got YouTube generating
traffic for you 24 7 for free on
autopilot gotcha should YouTube shorts
be used in your opinion primarily to
direct people to subscribe to the
channel and to watch the more long-form
videos that you know like the
traditional YouTube videos or do you
think you know go gung-ho with the
YouTube shorts and don't even worry
about the other videos and just keep
pumping out these vertical videos if
those are my options I'd pick number two
okay
um I think that the mistake people make
is sometimes they think shorts are a
commercial for their long form videos
not true not very effective that they
could be even a clip of your long form
video
and then they might go watch the long
long for a video that is true but I
would still make the presupposition that
it just needs to stand on its own okay
and that the connection of the shorts of
the long form such a small percentage of
that that will probably make that bridge
okay because when you're in the mindset
of shorts too you're you're kind of in
that feed mindset you just keep you're
swiping your your swiping you're swiping
and it's gonna take a lot of motivation
and inspiration for the viewer to go I'm
gonna stop
this steady stream of dopamine heads to
my brain to go now like if it's one of
the great things in YouTube shorts is
clips from a video podcast like this
and if somebody gets they love it they
get some juicy nuggets from it you know
whatever that's great but they still
probably are going to move on now maybe
one percent maybe five maybe ten but
that's still such a small number is like
oh I didn't know Brock and Sean sat down
I'm gonna go seek out that longer for a
video best practice in that case is you
can do a pinned comment there's
definitely different functionality and
shorts than other platforms that's a
clickable link okay mobile and desktop
um as well as description description is
very hard to get to on shorts It's a few
clicks away but the PIN comment is a
great place to put a clickable link and
so absolutely if you add a clip vertical
video from a video podcast you could
link to the full episode and maybe you
get one two three percent of the traffic
again that's not much so to to that end
the other thing is that YouTube is
speaking to
DD viewpre is a product manager of
YouTube said that shorts and long form
were not talking that was the first
problem they're like the algorithm and
it's kind of funny because what's up us
respect for these incredibly intelligent
Tech Geeks and they were kind of liking
we don't know why they're like do you
built this thing but they're like but
what we're doing is we're trying to get
the algorithm because they do talk about
the algorithm even being like a black
box it's like program programmatic data
on the outside but it's its own
Intelligence on the inside so they're
trying to like code into it and it's
like a living organism or something that
they're trying to influence so they said
we're starting to build the the channels
of communication to include some of
these things one that short form leads
to long form like directly like there's
some whole correlation there but the
bigger thing is that the consumption of
a particular viewer so they find you in
shorts they vote with their time is the
biggest way they're gonna vote makes
sense it stops the scroll they complete
the video so that algorithm goes oh man
they like Brock's stuff let's signature
suggest them another video they they
complete that as well maybe they do a
couple and you also have long four
videos on your channel so then maybe you
sit down later
in front of your computer log into the
same YouTube account and some of your
log form videos start showing up on
their home page or even all the way to
your smart TV you're logged in and
different content formats are showing up
a different place
places that is a evolving
process that in describing it here I I'd
still default back to your number two in
a way don't even worry about it too much
and try to create great shorts that
stand on their own to get you reach
viewers awareness and one of the coolest
things that we could even go into how
YouTube shorts YouTube pays the best out
of any platforms and YouTube shorts
plays though or it's still very low in
terms of how much it's paying I know
that reels recently pulled pulled away
that their their bonus uh YouTube long
form is insane how much it can pay
comparatively YouTube shorts is terrible
but you could get a lot of views quick
you get a lot of subscribers quick you
can get a lot of awareness you can grow
if you're just starting from scratch
right now listening to this you're
growing YouTube shorts is a great way to
just start getting awareness and that's
your opportunity with that creating
great shorts that stand on their own to
just get a chance to meet someone it's
kind of like speed dating in a lot of
ways like before someone even wants to
sit down listen to an hour-long
conversation yeah hey I don't know if I
even want to go on an hour-long date
with you this is speed day and they are
like okay man I've had some good
experiences like let's take this to the
next level and I'll go sit down to a
proper meal and they maybe go to your
long form content on your YouTube
channel gotcha are there any specific
strategies that you would recommend for
converting this person who's on the
speed date to just become a subscriber
maybe not to go all the way to watching
you know the correlated long-form video
but just what kinds of shorts are
actually getting people to press the
Subscribe versus maybe just watch engage
and then keep scrolling
one is the more views you get is the
more subscribers you'll get and that may
seem obvious but I think understanding
that
the biggest strategy is making a great
short somebody so somebody that gets
someone to stop scrolling and watch as
much as possible to the end so how do
you do that well a couple good openers
are number one open with you
like literally the first word is you
because you're talking to the viewer
like you're kind of like saying you
won't believe this hmm
uh get Munch just dropped a new update
to their AI tool for converting your
long four videos into short form videos
let me show you let me show you how it
learns so talking straight you won't
believe this
um another one is eat this guy like and
a lot of people are doing storytelling
some entrepreneurs are doing
storytelling of of businesses this guy
started a clothing business when he was
20 years old and turned it into a 10
million dollar a year Empire and then it
starts breaking it down or
um so so calling out to the viewer
trimming the fluff the worst thing you
can do on shorts is the old school
thinking of like telling people kind of
what you're about to tell them a lot of
ways you should just get into it gotcha
uh look you know look at watch this
you won't believe this like it's a real
grab attention immediately and then
um definitely trimming the fluff and
adding real value so I think actually
the biggest thing is to be a little bit
intangible it's it's not you know the
the right hook or the right title or any
of those things those are all good
tactics but the ultimate strategy is
you're just trying to create
essentially a brand experience with the
viewer the best way to convert a
subscriber is like I kind of like this
person yeah this person this this was
really actually valuable this actually
this was surprising wow I didn't know
that like I I learned something and then
also you know people will forget what
you say but they'll always remember how
you make them feel so just even taking a
breath when you're creating content to
smile be yourself and
I'm sure you are like me and everybody
listening to this there's certain people
who like I kind of like their Vibe and
some of that is also not stressing out
because what if people don't like me
well yeah you're not gonna be
everybody's cup of tea yeah but you
being you and and and just you know
being your authentic self and sharing
your energy and sharing your joy or
sharing your humor or sharing your
stoicism uh and sharing your uh you know
matter of factness sharing how quickly
you get to the point or if you are a
little more uh add and kind of flighty
great and and and the punch line is that
if you've architected a good short
that's truly valuable it stops a scroll
and somebody watches it to the end we
just had to short go to 1.1 million
views
um and I think that's led to
hundreds of subscribers okay so shorts
have the real potential to get
massive Top Line traffic
the long tail of shorts in terms of how
we would measure social media success
it's gonna be less clicks to the pin
comment it's gonna be less subscribers
probably than if somebody spent time
with you on a long far video but YouTube
is being more generous in competitive
algorithmically especially with these
other platforms so I think that's okay
like
the set in air quotes here it is easy to
get a million views on shorts is it
harder to get a million views with a
longer form video on YouTube so those
hundreds or a couple thousand
subscribers that come from a million
views is easier you know of course the
solo art form and skills to learn
um when it comes to shorts which is a
great thing I mean easier especially in
the sense it has to be 60 seconds or
less it's vertical by the way your phone
is probably the best content creation
cool over produced shorts do not perform
as well seems to be true cross-platform
using your smartphone being more raw be
more organic and even making it look
more native like everybody who's doing
green screens over news articles
um perfectly cut out green screen does
not seem to be what's necessary you know
there's this Doctor Who's crushing
YouTube shorts whose his face is all
distorted at the green screen and his
eyes are disappearing and all this kind
of stuff and he's reacting to kind of
like botched surgeries and like breast
augmentation and like pus things coming
out of places or it was it was an
encrustation on breast implants video
I'm skipping yeah I bet it showed him
he's like it turned into like clam
shells or something like exactly yeah
it's pretty gnarly and uh and so I was
watching this short and again it was the
production value was incredibly low but
that's exactly what's expected for kind
of that content format kind of stops the
scroll very organic like a friend
quickly reacted to something and is
sending you the video and so that's a
massive opportunity for everybody to
listen to this you just have a
smartphone you can lean in this new
content format and YouTube is being
generous with with views and creativity
works best in constraints sometimes it's
overwhelming to think oh have so much to
say in a long form video you know and
now I'm going down a lot of rabbit
Trails okay is this gonna be a 45 minute
video it has to be 60 seconds or less so
kind of like the shorter more concise
the better so one of the cool things
about vertical video in general is I
think it helps you become a better
Communicator it just forces you to be
more concise with your thoughts your
ideas and all of the above that makes
sense I a few months ago at a conference
said that Tick Tock was great for
reaching a really wide audience
Instagram was great for converting that
audience to customers and I said YouTube
shorts is like the wild west do you
think that's still true do you think
that's changed recently or would you say
it's still pretty wild over on YouTube
shorts yeah solely the wild west I think
um you can make an educated guess that
betting on YouTube shorts is a good bet
yeah you know even in the gaming Niche
right now twitch is going through some
struggles lots of gamers are going to
YouTube
um obviously Tick Tock at this point and
who knows what this will be it's going
through so court cases and the CEO is
you know being interviewed and so who
knows whereas YouTube and Google have
such a stable place in the market in the
mind share YouTube The Brand now has
Sunday ticket that's coming to it for
football and on YouTube TV and the stats
came out that
people are watching more YouTube in the
living rooms of American families than
Hulu or Netflix wow so YouTube people
that are watching YouTube TV or YouTube
uh content in general and there's more
TV what's Wild is YouTube shorts are
being integrated in I was gonna ask our
shorts and showing you up on TV
absolutely wow and and
um maybe people listening to this are
less of YouTube consumers but it's kind
of wild is like my daily routine is as
I'll you know head downstairs maybe take
um I seen a half year old on a walk and
then I'll kind of sit down on the couch
and I open YouTube and YouTube is is my
media and of course we'll maybe watch
shows and hit up some Ted lasso or you
know hit up some Seinfeld uh Netflix
right now but like YouTube is the place
we go first and what's Wild is that
could be long form video podcasts news
shows I watch all kinds of different
stuff but YouTube shorts is being
recommended and it might sound at first
it might seem like a jarring experience
but like vertical content on a smart TV
is it's like normal and it's kind of
this idea of even AirPlay like we're
used to watching stuff on our phone but
if you
Google Cast it or AirPlay it to your TV
to laugh together with content one of
the most popular formats on YouTube too
is Tick Tock compilations so there's a
lot of people like funny short form
content combined in a long form cut
usually people using fair use OPC other
people's content there's huge channels
that people grow just like making
compilations of popular tick tocks and
whatnot so anyways
um betting on YouTube is a good bet it
is a dominant force and so it's still
the wild west but you got to know their
developers are being aggressive right
now
in the tech Wars and the platform Wars I
don't think there's uh you know no one's
trying to be like oh Tick Tock already
has market share we're not going to try
to push in on that you know Mark
Zuckerberg's not just sitting past reels
are blowing up right now Facebook reels
this vertical video platform War that's
happening between
Facebook reels Tick Tock Instagram reels
which that's meta total right and you've
got Pinterest vertical video and YouTube
shorts uh LinkedIn thinking about
stories or vertical video like you got
to know that all these companies are
going to be very aggressive and
YouTube's gonna be a force to reckon
with in terms of market share mind share
and so that that said
it would be irresponsible for anybody
that's serious about getting their
message out building their brand
building their business to ignore
YouTube shorts you at least got to
repurpose but you I would also say the
opportunity is you would still be an
early adopter getting the YouTube shorts
right now because if you get into it in
Wild West days it's kind of like the Tom
Cruise Nicole Kidman on like the
Louisiana land rush or whatever you know
you're getting it in the days where it's
like you're riding a horse to go stake
your claim yeah real estate I can't even
imagine imagine if we could go to
Newport Beach right now and just whoever
got there first just got some beachfront
property that's kind of what YouTube
shorts is right now if you lean in learn
the skill set learn the mindset you know
get your digital real estate by putting
in the work putting in the hustle I love
that he said it's it would be
irresponsible to ignore YouTube shorts
because like you said it's it's YouTube
which we all I think in the social media
space recognize YouTube as the tried and
true like the one uh that stood the test
of time and that has somewhat uh
maintained while all these other social
medias have kind of come and gone
um and now we have this new way to kind
of establish ourselves on YouTube so
that's powerful two quick strategy
questions I have for you one uh I
understand you know we have different
levels of what consistency means for us
what we can sustain how many is too many
with YouTube shorts um and then kind of
a follow-up or tangential question is on
Instagram it's true that the more you
post the more you grow so is that also
true with YouTube shorts yeah so answer
those in a reward reverse Yeah the more
you post the more you grow that is
absolutely true with YouTube shorts and
it's it's true because of The Compound
Effect
um almost probably with any platform
there's like the 80 20 rule like 20 of
your vertical videos your reels that you
upload probably get 80 of your views
those are your breakout videos and then
the other eighty percent do okay
and if you could learn from your winners
and always adapt your strategy then
great but it's also just kind of a math
game like the more at bats you have the
more breakout videos you have but the
other thing that happens is the more
great videos you have the more the
algorithm will probably follow up
recommending another great video that
you have so if you only upload one short
a month there's only 12 even out there
and maybe only one does decent there's
not a lot else to recommend but you do
see a Compound Effect by having a
greater library of vertical videos
because again once a viewer gets into
you and votes with their time their
consumption of the video itself then
chances are the algorithm keeps
following up and therefore
um you could get one two three four five
six shorts to use NFL videos really
getting thousands of views an hour you
can kind of going viral we've had this
happen multiple times millions of views
on a short then the flywheel Effect The
Compound Effect could be very
significant in terms of how much to post
there are some shorts only channels
probably something to note is that if
you go to tubefilter.com
they study the top 50 channels on
YouTube by views on a weekly basis okay
last time I checked 40 of the 50
channels were YouTube shorts channels
only YouTube shortly correct and already
of the top 50. yes so 80 of the top 50
channels were already posting YouTube
short and it was between over the last
couple weeks it was between 30 and 40 of
those Channel wow and which will also
tell you how many how just macro how
much YouTube shorts yeah it's crushy in
terms of views now caveat
you know there's a lot of kind of
entertainment channels I'm now I've got
the YouTube kids app I'm hanging out
with my son Sean Bradley watching what
he watches he knows how to swipe on a
phone at two and a half and he can look
at all this different stuff so it's
maybe fast hitting content it's a lot of
entertainment based channels younger
leading channels even kind of children's
leading channels
and it is a big signal that we should
look at as business owners but I would
argue that that doesn't mean 40 of the
top 50 highest earning businesses
because views can be tricky yep in fact
that's the danger in shorts is it's not
just a dopamine hit it's like 100x
dopamine you're like oh my gosh I'm
blowing up well are you quality of the
views I'm not against them but what is
the quality of the viewership
um it's a less it's less depth even if
someone's like yeah they were cool but
they still move on as opposed to a real
substantial conversation or someone who
wants to go deep take action to your
point do your boy like compare it to
tick tock are Lincoln bio clicks on Tick
Tock are horrible even though we can
blow up over there on Instagram they're
insane and the level of conversations in
the DM and to your point of customers so
that's just the quality so there's a lot
to say just to say 40 out of 50
nevertheless pay attention to it are you
too short
and some of my friends who've gone
hardcore on YouTube shorts until three a
day three out of four a day okay and
they lean in and that that's like all
they do some of the things they do
strategically too is they'll even post
the same shorts but change the hook wow
so essentially the same content same
content and give a different hook a
different try and upload those I love it
I upload one they get it done at nine
a.m and then rework it a little and
upload it around noon and then get one
posted at one or two and at some point
YouTube stops pushing notifications and
you can trust them if you upload a long
form video like we'll upload a long form
video and a short in the same day we'll
upload a long form video maybe a short
and go live that same day I avoid that
right now if we don't upload a long form
video we'll upload a short
um and so these are great questions but
I also am aware that a lot of times they
can paralyze people what's the best time
to post how many should I post I'm like
just post like yeah well the best thing
because sometimes when asking those
questions we just debate in our mind as
opposed to like get your phone
update your YouTube app open up YouTube
shorts and create something and post it
and if you're inspired and you've got
the time then post another one in the
same day especially in relation to the
chance to react to trending events or
when you get inspired on idea or you
just happen to be in your kitchen making
your smoothie and you're like oh this is
a cool little story I could tell yeah
and then after your smoothie you're
about to you know eat your Frozen liver
that you cut into cubes and you're like
oh that's kind of a cool story to sell
too so you make your liver video and
your smoothie smoothie video like yeah
We're Off to the Races so yeah up to
four but like right now we are
um we would do as many as 31 a month
basically one a day is what we're after
and that's because we also have a
vertical video production this for us as
an education brand these are
predominantly clips for video podcasts
like this either me going on other
podcasts and I set a vertical video
camera off to the side okay capture my
audio and maybe blend it with the
original I think or just my answers to
the questions become Clips so that's
that's what that happens to be and uh
one of the biggest things I am doing is
those green screen reaction to news
articles recently there's this big
lawsuit against
finance influencers that promoted FTX a
billion dollar losses yeah and so I
realized I was kind of newsworthy he's a
big number Tom Brady's been was included
was he one of the sports influencers he
was maybe separately okay they they're
being harder on the finance YouTubers
they're saying that these guys
are positioning themselves as financial
advisors as far as Tom Brady is just a
celebrity it makes sense and who knows
what will happen with that but I saw the
opportunity to talk about it I saw the
news and so I screenshotted a couple
people I was like you know Erica
kohlberg I thought about who was the
most known I was like meet Kevin Andre
dick Erica kohlberg and then behind me
in the green screen was these pictures
of these and then the article and then
the tweet from me Kevin's response and
then a tweet from whatever and I just
kind of took the position as a
journalist yeah and just conveyed the
information so I built that out on
YouTube shorts so I'm doing a couple of
those a month and then we've got kind of
this workflow of clips from water form
content and so yeah I think I've said a
lot and at the end of the day it's like
you gotta punch fear in the face punch
perfectionism in the face the press
record yeah I would love for people to
just start repurposing their shorts try
to create some from scratch do as many
as you can if you have them saved up I
would I would upload them once a day
over four days of AD four rather than
four in one day makes sense but if you
you know you can also schedule upload
really easy on YouTube that's that maybe
you could do that elsewhere but YouTube
is notoriously great for schedule upload
and whatnot which is kind of cool as
well so you could plan your week out and
uh yeah cool awesome one last question
that I have for you
um on Instagram specifically they really
value the social component within the
algorithm who are you commenting on who
are your friends commenting on and so it
is trying to build like this social
spider web map of all your different
connections
is that as important on YouTube and if
it is should I be being super engaged in
my own comments section and responding
to every comment should I be looking for
other influencers who are maybe in my
Niche to engage with their posts and
comment on their posts super common on
Instagram does it matter as much on
YouTube
I could be wrong but I don't think
that's a thing on YouTube at all on
YouTube it's click through rate and
average view duration and inside of
YouTube Studio where you see your
analytics it says
I don't know how long but it says uh
chose to skip where it says didn't skip
for your YouTube short and it says 60
didn't skip
or 80 did a script which would be good
the the challenges and they have not
disclosed what the amount is is a
YouTube short could be three seconds you
know give me seven seconds or whatever
and it also could be 60. so when is the
the threshold it could it actually be an
exact number probably because if it was
three seconds and the short was seven
three you get what I'm saying yeah so
all that to say is click-through rate
and average the iteration if you could
get someone to stop the scroll or they
search and they see a couple options
they see a long form video they see
seven minutes answering the question
four minutes answer the question and 55
seconds to answer the question maybe
like I want to go for the short version
I'm going to give this a shot that could
be a desktop experience finding that all
that to say is if they click on it or
they stop the scroll and if you could
keep them watching to the end that is
what that that is what uh influences
YouTube likes matter a little bit
comments matter a little bit but all
these other
measures are infinitely less important
than just time on platform can you can
you get the person and YouTube is
actually terrible at creating a social
network it it's like the Forgotten
social media platform does it even a
social media exactly yeah we debate
about this I asked Michael Stelzer when
I spoke in social media marketing world
I was like is YouTube even a social
media platform and he brought all the
YouTube speakers out to dinner and he's
like why do you think you guys are all
here and I was like yeah I know I know
but like it's a legitimate question
isn't it because do you even think
YouTube's a social media platform
because for sure it kind of is in that
category but DMS isn't a thing they say
how you're gonna bring it back you don't
talk to really other people unless you
see them in the comments yeah it's
different for sure so it's much more
about that viewer experience
click-through rate and average iteration
gotcha punch fear in the face punch
perfection in the face punch the record
button yes the share button in the face
yes uh thank you so much for being here
today Sean we really appreciate it Brock
I appreciate you cool
[Music]